---
title: Data transformation with Logic
columns: two
layout: commonTwo.hbs
description: Data transformation of events using Logic
---

# {{title}}

{{box op="start" cssClass="boxed warningBox"}}
Logic is in beta and is not recommended for production applications. There may be breaking changes to the behavior 
and APIs in future versions based on user feedback. 

Pricing and availability may change in the future.
{{box op="end"}}

One of the feature of [Logic](/getting-started/logic-ledger/logic/) is the ability to take events published from a device and transform them before passing them to an external service using a webhook. Some reasons you might want to do this:

- Expand data to minimize cellular data usage and fit within publish size limits.
- Implement business logic in the cloud instead of on-device firmware for easier updates.
- Support external services that have data formatting requirements that are hard to implement on-device, like XML.

## Basics

When using this model:

- Your Particle device publishes a product event using `Particle.publish`.
- Logic receives this event and runs the logic block associated with the event.
- The logic block transforms the data as desired and publishes a transformed event.
- A product webhook receives the transformed event and interacts with an external service.

### Publishing events

https://docs.particle.io/firmware/best-practices/json/#using-jsonwriter

### Logic block

Follow the instructions in [Logic](/getting-started/logic-ledger/logic/) for creating a logic block triggered by an event.



### Webhook

Logic itself cannot interact with an external web service. It can, however publish a transformed event that triggers a webhook.

- The events published by Logic are not limited to 1024 bytes like a device-published event.
- Logic can trigger zero or more events from a device-published event.
- Additional events triggered by Logic are not counted as data operations at this time.
- Custom POST and PUT body formats can be generated by Logic.


## Expanding data

Device-published events are limited to 1024 bytes, sometimes lower on some devices and Device OS versions. Likewise, some external services use JSON key names that are very verbose. You can use Logic to change key names, unpack data, or even change the shape of data structures easily.



## Business logic

Say you have a device that is publishing temperature data periodically and want to implement temperature alerts using a push notification service like [Pushover](/integrations/community-integrations/pushover/). The notification service is triggered using a webhook, and it's common to generate the event from the device in an alarm condition.

But what if you want to centralize the alerting so you can customize the alert behavior, such as temperature limits, alert frequency, etc. from the Particle console instead of having to update device firmware? You can use Logic for this use-case!



## XML


## Specialized data formats

If you have a web service that requires data in a POST or PUT body using an unusual format (not JSON or application/x-www-form-urlencoded), you can do so using Logic.

Use a transformed data webhook using a `body` parameter with a value of `{{{PARTICLE_EVENT_VALUE}}}`.

Have your Logic block build the data structure as a string, and publish that string to the transformed data webhook. This data can be in any format that you can generate as a Javascript string.

If you need to include binary data, you will need to generate `multipart/form-data` from your Logic block and encode the binary data using a format like Base 64. This can be done using Logic as well.






